>> Richard Feldman: So
we'll talk about a few things here.
First we're gonna talk
about pipeline types.
We're gonna talk about Decode.andThen,
then decoderizing which is a term
I made up and
finally intermediate representations.
Okay, let's start with pipeline types.
And before we get to pipeline types, we're
actually gonna build our way up to that by
talking about just plain old decoding
types, the plain old decoder primitives
themselves that are gonna
be used in pipeline.
So let's say we have a type alias
called Instructor, and it's got name,
which is a string, courses, which is
an Int, and isTeaching, which is a Bool.
So let's say Richard,
num_courses, 2 and active,
these are the things that we're
going to be decoding from.
So that's the JSON on the right,
and then on the left,
we have the type alias that we're
going to decode into, okay, so
because we've defined a record type alias,
anytime we do that,
we get this function for free that
is the same name as the type alias.
So if I put Instructor with
a capital I in record,
just because I've defined this type alias,
it's going to say, cool,
that is a function from String
to Int to Bool to Instructor.
Because this has three fields, they are
defined String, Int, Bool, in that order,
so that’s where the arguments come from.
And if I provide all these, it’s going to
populate each of these fields in one of
these records and return and
instructor for me.
Okay, I can decode a single field from
any JSON object by using decode.field.
So the way this decoder works is it takes
a string for the name of the field then it
takes a decoder for the expected
value associated with that field, and
then it gives me back a decoder which
will decode that value from the object.
Important to note how
decode.field works in isolation.
If all I do is I run this decoder on
a JSON object, all this decoder is
going to do is it's gonna say I
don't care what's on that object.
If that feels on there and its got that
value, we're good, decoding succeeded.
It does not care at all
the rest of the values.
It doesn't care about
the rest of the fields.
It just cares does it have
at least that one field and
is it the type that I expect.
If so, great, we decoded and we succeeded,
this is important to note because when we
start putting these things together and
we start using multiple decode fields,
it's important to remember that.
At no point are we saying this is
the exact shape of that JSON object.
So essentially it works kind of like open
records in the sense of saying I expect
that at least that field is present,
but there may be others, and if so,
I don't really care.
Okay, so let's decode that field.
So we've got our instructor,
we've got decode.field.
And we can put these
together with decode.map3.
So let's say we take a look
at this function and
we see that it takes three decoders,
there's also a map two which takes two
decoders and map which takes one decoder.
And it takes a function from a to b to c,
where a is the first Decoder's type, b is
the second one's type, and c is the third
one's type, and that function is going to
take a to b to c and return a val, and
ultimately this gives us a decoder val.
So using all the ingredients
that we have here on the screen,
we can see that if we want to make a
decoder that's going to decode some fields
into an instructor and
end up with a decoder instructor.
This is one way we can do that.
We can say Decode.map3.
Pass or function right here
which is string, int, to bool.
Then pass a decoder string, a decoder
int to the decoder bool which we can
use Decode.field to get as
the corresponding fields on a JSON object.
And then, by putting all these together,
we say Decode.map3,
Instructor, field name string,
field courses int, field active bool, and
what map3 is going to do is it's
going to run them one at a time.
It's going to run this one and
say, okay, did that succeed?
And it says, all right, the first Decoder.
If it's a field name and there is in fact
a field on that JSON object called name
which happens to be a string.
Then it says, great,
that decoder succeeded, next one.
Run it again, that one succeeded.
Run it again, run the third one,
that succeeded.
Now, if all three of them succeeded,
then it's gonna say,
great, I now have three values that I
can pass to this function right here.
And since what we provided for
this function was instructor,
it's gonna say okay.
Take that first one, passes
the first argument, second argument,
there was a third argument
which is the same name.
That string is gonna be the first
argument which is what we want.
Second is gonna be int
which is also what we want.
And the third one is gonna be
a bool which is also what we want.
And finally we will end up having
successfully decoded this instructor.
So this is how to do it using map three.